Add asset store announcement blogpost (#1334)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/introducing-the-godot-asset-store.md

---
title: "Introducing the Godot Asset Store"

> excerpt: "We've been working on replacing the Asset Library with something built for the present and future, here's what's coming."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "We've been working on replacing the Asset Library with something built for the present and future. Here's what's coming."
```

categories: ["news"]
author: Emi
image: /storage/blog/covers/godot-asset-store.jpg
date: 2026-05-19 18:30:00
---

> After many years of having the [Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset) as the only "official" place to publish assets, we attempted to modernize it and started building upon it to address the major pain points and user requests. Unfortunately, while doing that, we noticed how challenging dealing with that code was. From the user accounts to the way templates and information are displayed, the current Asset Library code is inflexible and fragile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After many years of having the [Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset) as the official place to publish assets, we attempted to improve it to address user requests and reported pain points. Unfortunately, while doing that we noticed the current architecture was no longer suited to the needs and demands of the Godot ecosystem given [its growth in the recent years](https://godotengine.org/article/godot-growth-stats-2026/).
```

Reviewer: Looks good, except should just be "in recent years" not "in the recent years".

You already know that we have been using a shared account system across all of our online platforms. This means you can use your Godot account to chat on our [developer chat](https://chat.godotengine.org/), participate on [the forum](https://forum.godotengine.org/), vote for [showreel candidates](https://showreel.godotengine.org/), and donate to the [development fund](https://fund.godotengine.org/). Unfortunately, the Asset Library was set up with a separate account system, so you have to maintain yet another Godot account specifically for it. That account system has been plagued with many issues, from spam to password reset emails not arriving, that required a lot of manual work to operate. This wasn't a problem in the past, but with [more users using Godot](https://godotengine.org/article/godot-growth-stats-2026/), we need to spend an increasing amount of resources here.

> Over the past few years, we managed to squeeze some improvements in, but most of them were cosmetic. As soon as we got into editing the code, we noticed how brittle everything was, and if we wanted to make drastic changes, we would still need to address major foundational issues while also maintaining compatibility with older versions of the Godot editor. Instead, we decided to start from scratch with the present and future needs in mind, and create the new [Godot Asset Store](https://store.godotengine.org/).

Reviewer 2: I agree with @JohnVeness, I think this paragraph can be dropped and we can just keep the last sentence.

> Over the past few years, we managed to squeeze some improvements in, but most of them were cosmetic. As soon as we got into editing the code, we noticed how brittle everything was, and if we wanted to make drastic changes, we would still need to address major foundational issues while also maintaining compatibility with older versions of the Godot editor. Instead, we decided to start from scratch with the present and future needs in mind, and create the new [Godot Asset Store](https://store.godotengine.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, we decided to start from scratch with the present and future needs in mind, and create the new [Godot Asset Store](https://store.godotengine.org/).
```

![A screenshot of the Godot Asset Store](/storage/blog/asset-store/godot-asset-store-screenshot.webp)

> ## The [Godot Asset Store](https://store.godotengine.org/)

Reviewer 3: This section is more about the motiviation to build it, not the store itself. Maybe the section title could reflect that better

Reviewer 2: Agree, I think the paragraphs below can be moved up in the previous section as they both provide the motivation behind the work:
- old architecture that was too inflexible to update
- confusion in the community about which stores were official and backed by the Foundation

> We initially didn't have plans to run an asset store operated by the Foundation. With most projects outside of the Godot Engine itself, we try to foster an ecosystem that provides solutions Godot developers need, and we expected someone to make and run an asset store with Godot in mind. There were also existing stores that people use (like [itch](https://itch.io/search?q=godot)), so we assumed the community would centralize around the one that worked best for them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We initially didn't have plans to run an asset store operated by the Foundation, as with most projects outside of the Godot Engine itself, we try to foster an ecosystem that provides solutions Godot developers need. There were also existing stores that people use (like [itch](https://itch.io/search?q=godot)), so we assumed the community would centralize around the one that worked best for them.
```

Unfortunately, when a few unofficial store pages started to show up hosting paid assets, they were purposefully misleading users into thinking the Godot Foundation was running them. We even started receiving regular support emails from users trying to get refunds on assets that were never delivered or payments that never arrived. These stores were also hosting paid versions of free assets (such as [Kenney's](https://www.kenney.nl/)) with unclear information about ownership or transparency.

> Thankfully, these stores were never popular enough to be a serious issue, and many have already closed since then, but it's not a great situation to leave for each user to deal with.

Reviewer 2: If the stores were not popular enough, then I don't think it's worth bringing them up as talking points to the community.
Instead we can summarize by stating that there was a need and demand for an official store backed by the Foundation.

```suggestion
Unfortunately this approach and resulting gap led to confusion within the community as to which of those existing stores were backed by the Godot Foundation (e.g: the Foundation started receiving regular support emails from users trying to get refunds on assets that were never delivered or payments that never arrived). Some of these stores were also hosting paid versions of free assets (such as [Kenney's](https://www.kenney.nl/)) with unclear information about ownership or transparency.
```

Since it was clear that the Asset Library was going to be hard to improve, and there was real demand for a store, we didn't think it was efficient to run two different platforms at the same time, so the project to replace the old Asset Library with the new Asset Store was kickstarted.

We will still need to keep the Asset Library running for a while since many older versions of the engine will still need it, but the ultimate goal is to deprecate it and leave it as a read-only repository.

We considered moving the assets from the library to the new store, but it wasn't feasible. We would first need everyone to create a new account and link them together (which would require changes to the old account system), then get permission from each asset author to republish on their behalf, and since the current Asset Library doesn't actually host any of the assets it distributes, we would need to re-upload all of them to the new hosting solution. There are also many differences in how assets are presented that would make the migration incomplete, and many of them have been abandoned or are no longer supported, so it would just create a lot of irrelevant entries in the new store.

> The new Godot Asset Store is still under development, but it already has far more features than the Asset Library: user reviews, multiple download versions per asset, tags, analytics, changelogs, and many more coming in the future (check the [roadmap here](https://store.godotengine.org/roadmap/)). Once this transition is finished, we will be able to make bigger improvements in both the online store and the tab inside the Godot Engine editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Godot Asset Store is still under development, but it already has far more features than the Asset Library: user reviews, multiple download versions per asset, tags, analytics, changelogs, and many more coming in the future (check out the [roadmap](https://store.godotengine.org/roadmap/)). Once this transition is finished, we will be able to make bigger improvements in both the online store and the tab inside the Godot Engine editor.
```

## Future

> Being able to sell and buy assets is one of the most anticipated features of the Asset Store, but we want to make sure the transition away from the Asset Library is fully complete before enabling this. Buying and selling assets will give us a bit of extra funding to hopefully cover the costs of operating the store, but profit is not the Godot Foundation's priority for this project. You might notice that progress on the Asset Store is not as fast, because we are still going to be prioritizing the Godot Engine above any other project. So while we want to foster a space for people who up until now haven't been very engaged with the Godot community (primarily non-programmers), we also want it to be a space that's safe, functional, and up to the quality standards you'd expect from an asset store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being able to sell and buy assets is one of the most anticipated features of the Asset Store, but we want to make sure the transition away from the Asset Library is fully complete before enabling this. Buying and selling assets will give us a bit of extra funding to hopefully cover the costs of operating the store, but profit is not the Godot Foundation's priority for this project. You might notice that progress on the Asset Store is not fast, because we are still going to be prioritizing the Godot Engine above any other project. So while we want to foster a space for people who up until now haven't been very engaged with the Godot community (primarily non-programmers), we also want it to be a space that's safe, functional, and up to the quality standards you'd expect from an asset store.
```

---
title: "Introducing the Godot Asset Store"
excerpt: "We've been working on replacing the Asset Library with something built for the present and future. Here's what's coming."
categories: ["news"]
author: Emi
image: /storage/blog/covers/godot-asset-store.jpg
date: 2026-05-22 18:30:00
---

The [Asset Library](https://godotengine.org/asset-library/asset) has served for many years as the official place to publish and acquire assets, fulfilling a valuable community need. 

> However with the [rapid growth of the Godot community and ecosystem](https://godotengine.org/article/godot-growth-stats-2026/), it was time to come up with a new infrastructure able to serve the growing needs and demands of the Godot community and ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However with the [rapid growth of the Godot community and ecosystem](https://godotengine.org/article/godot-growth-stats-2026/), it was time to come up with a new infrastructure.
```
Can't really reference a growing Godot community and ecosystem twice in one sentence!

After a couple years of work and a few months of beta testing, we are pleased to introduce the new [Godot Asset Store](https://store.godotengine.org/).

![A screenshot of the Godot Asset Store](/storage/blog/asset-store/godot-asset-store-screenshot.webp)

## The [Godot Asset Store](https://store.godotengine.org/)

> The new Asset Store is live and stable and will be fully integrated in Godot 4.7. The Asset Store leverages Godot shared account system, which means that if you have donated to the [development fund](https://fund.godotengine.org), participated on [the forum](https://forum.godotengine.org/) or on the [developer chat](https://chat.godotengine.org/), or voted for [showreel candidates](https://showreel.godotengine.org/), you already have an account. And if you haven't, creating one (and [donating](https://fund.godotengine.org)) is easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Asset Store is live and stable and will be fully integrated in Godot 4.7. The Asset Store leverages Godot's shared account system, which means that if you have donated to the [development fund](https://fund.godotengine.org), participated on [the forum](https://forum.godotengine.org/) or on the [developer chat](https://chat.godotengine.org/), or voted for [showreel candidates](https://showreel.godotengine.org/), you already have an account. And if you haven't, creating one is easy.
```
You've already linked to the fund.

The Asset Store introduces several new features:

- User reviews and ratings
![A screenshot showing the Reviews page of an asset](/storage/blog/asset-store/asset-store-reviews.png)

- Analytics for publishers
![A screenshot of the analytics page](/storage/blog/asset-store/asset-store-analytics.png)

- Multiple download versions per asset
![A screenshot of the download per version drop-down](/storage/blog/asset-store/asset-store-multiple-versions.png)

- A changelog page for asset
![A screenshot of an asset changelog page](/storage/blog/asset-store/asset-store-changelog.png)

- The ability to tag asset, including creating custom tags
![A screenshot of an asset's tags](/storage/blog/asset-store/godot-asset-store-tags.png)

> In addition, many more features are [coming in the near future](https://store.godotengine.org/roadmap/)) including the ability to [buy and sell assets](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-asset-store-tracker/issues/14).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, many more features are [coming in the near future](https://store.godotengine.org/roadmap/) including the ability to [buy and sell assets](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-asset-store-tracker/issues/14).
```

> We encourage users to visit the store, either through the [website](https://store.godotengine.org/) or through the [preview builds for Godot 4.7](https://godotengine.org/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-7-beta-2/) and start providing feedback. 

Reviewer 2: Beta 3 is out :)

```suggestion
We encourage users to visit the store, either through the [website](https://store.godotengine.org/) or through the [preview builds for Godot 4.7](https://godotengine.org/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-7-beta-3/) and start providing feedback. 
```

Author: we can't keep up!

And we encourage publishers to start migrating their assets to the Asset Store. 
Note that we considered automatically moving the assets from the library to the new store but decided against due to numerous issues:

- Need every publishers to create a new account and link them to their previous account
- Require permission from each publisher to republish on their behalf

> - Need to re-upload all assets from the library to the new hosting solution as the Library doesn't actually host any of the assets it distributes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Need to re-upload all assets from the Asset Library to the new hosting solution as the Asset Library doesn't actually host any of the assets it distributes
```

> - Auto-migrating abandoned or no longer supported assets would just create a lot of irrelevant entries in the new store

Reviewer: I still don't think you need all these explanations. Developers will understand the need for a clean slate.

Author: I'm trying to react to many people wondering on social media about this. Many still are anxious about moving away from the asset library :(

Reviewer: I don't look on social media so I don't know, but, well, I just think it reads too defensively, like you're being attacked already for not migrating everything in advance. I'm sorry if that is indeed the case :(

## What about the Asset Library?

We initially didn't have plans to run an asset store operated by the Foundation, as with most projects outside of the Godot Engine itself, we try to foster an ecosystem that provides solutions Godot developers need. There were also existing stores that people use (like [itch](https://itch.io/search?q=godot)), so we assumed the community would centralize around the one that worked best for them.

> Unfortunately this approach and resulting gap led to confusion within the community as to which of those existing stores were backed by the Godot Foundation (e.g: the Foundation started receiving regular support emails from users). Some of these stores were also hosting paid versions of free assets (such as [Kenney's](https://www.kenney.nl/)) with unclear information about ownership or transparency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately this approach and resulting gap led to confusion within the community as to which of those existing stores were backed by the Godot Foundation (e.g., the Foundation started receiving regular support emails from users). Some of these stores were also hosting paid versions of free assets (such as [Kenney's](https://www.kenney.nl/)) with unclear information about ownership or transparency.
```

> Among these concerns, we were also running into growing tech debt with the Asset library given that its architecture and infrastructure were not designed for the current present needs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Among these concerns, we were also running into growing tech debt with the Asset Library given that its architecture and infrastructure were not designed for the current present needs:
```

- The Asset Library doesn't use Godot shared account system, so users and publishers have to use yet another account for it, and the Foundation has to spend resources supporting and maintaining that account system.
- Existing infrastructure was hard to evolve while maintaining compatibility with older versions of the Godot editor.

We will keep the Asset Library running since many older versions of the engine still need it, but it should be considered deprecated, and will be set as a read-only repository in the near future.

## Future

> Our core goals for this release and the next is to ensure that the transition away from the Asset Library is fully complete, and to make the Asset Store a space that's safe, functional, and up to the quality standards you'd expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our core goals for the Asset Store in Godot 4.7 and 4.8 are to ensure that the transition away from the Asset Library is fully complete, and to make the Asset Store a space that's safe, functional, and up to the quality standards you'd expect.
```

> Our core goals for this release and the next is to ensure that the transition away from the Asset Library is fully complete, and to make the Asset Store a space that's safe, functional, and up to the quality standards you'd expect from an asset store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our core goals for this release and the next is to ensure that the transition away from the Asset Library is fully complete, and to make the Asset Store a space that's safe, functional, and up to the quality standards you'd expect.
```

Reviewer: Also, by "this release" do you mean the upcoming release of Godot?

Author: yes
